Added a glossary for Iris docs. (#4902)
SciTools/iris: docs/src/userguide/glossary.rst

            contain numerical data.
        - Auxiliary Coordinates -
            A coordinate that can map to multiple data dimensions. Can
            contain any type of data.
        - Scalar Coordinates -
                A coordinate that is not mapped to any data dimension, instead
                representing the cube as a whole.

        | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Cubes
        Cubes are the main method of storing data in Iris. A cube consists of:

        - :term:`Coordinates`
        - Array of :term:`Phenomenon` Data
        - :term:`Standard Name`
        - :term:`Long Name`
        - :term:`Units`
        - List of :term:`Cell Method`
        - List of :term:`Coordinate Factory`

        | **Related:** :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Cell Method
        A cell method represent past operations on a cube's data, such as a
        MEAN or SUM operation

        | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Coordinate Factory
        A coordinate factory derives coordinates from the values of existing

>         coordinates.

Reviewer: 4ac0efa9579dc034ab18d98d57be4b3a00ad687e is nicely phrased!

        |

   Dask
        A collection of NumPy-esque arrays, stored in hard disk. When needed,
        the data is temporarily loaded into RAM, and operated on, in batches.

        | **Related:** :term:`Lazy Data` **//** :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** :doc:`real_and_lazy_data`
        |

   Lazy Data
        Data stored in hard drive, and then temporarily loaded into RAM in
        batches when needed. Allows of less memory usage and faster performance,
        thanks to parallel processing.

        | **Related:** :term:`Dask` // :term:`Real Data`
        | **More information:** :doc:`real_and_lazy_data`
        |

   Long Name
        A name describing a :term:`phenomenon`, not limited to the
        the same restraints as :term:`standard name`.

        | **Related:** :term:`Standard Name` **||** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   MatPlotLib
        A python package for plotting and projecting data in a wide variety
        of formats.

        | **Related:** :term:`CartoPy` || :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** `MatPlotLib <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/>`_
        |

>    Meta Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Metadata
```

.. _glossary:

Glossary
=============

.. glossary::

   Cartopy
        A python package for producing maps, and other geospatial data.
        Allows plotting on these maps, over a range of projections.

        | **Related:** :term:`Matplotlib`
        | **More information:** `CartoPy Site <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/>`_
        |

> 

Reviewer 2: I think I'd like us to reference CF conventions in a dedicated section, which I guess will go here.
I think we particularly need to be clearer about the relationship between CF and netcdf.
I suggest something like ...
```
   CF Conventions
        Rules for storing meteorological Climate and Forecast data in
        :term:`NetCDF Format` files, defining a standard metadata format to
        describe what the data is.
        This also forms the data model which iris is based on.
        See `CF Conventions <http://cfconventions.org/>`_.
```

Some of that slightly borrowed from the "NetCDF Format" entry 
-- which I'm also proposing changes to (below) ...

   Coordinates
        A container for data points, comes in three main flavours.

        - Dimensional Coordinates -

>             A coordinate that represents a singular data dimension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            A coordinate that represents a singular data dimension of a cube.
```

>             A coordinate that represents a singular data dimension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            A coordinate that describes a single data dimension of a cube.
```

>             These are organised in ascending order of dimension. Can only
>             contain numerical data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Can only contain numerical values, in a sorted order (ascending or descending).
```
Otherwise I think this sounds like : "the dim-coords themselves are organised in dimension order"

>             These are organised in ascending order of dimension. Can only
>             contain numerical data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Can only contain numerical values, in a sorted order (ascending or descending).
```
Otherwise I think this sounds like : "the dim-coords themselves are organised in dimension order"

        - Auxiliary Coordinates -
            A coordinate that can map to multiple data dimensions. Can
            contain any type of data.
        - Scalar Coordinates -
                A coordinate that is not mapped to any data dimension, instead
                representing the cube as a whole.

        | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Cubes
        Cubes are the main method of storing data in Iris. A cube can consist of:

        - Array of :term:`Phenomenon` Data (Required)
        - :term:`Coordinates`
        - :term:`Standard Name`
        - :term:`Long Name`
        - :term:`Units`

>         - :term:`Cell Method`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - :term:`Cell Methods`
```

>         - :term:`Cell Method`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - :term:`Cell Methods`
```

Author: Was unsure on this one; due the nature of links, I have to change the heading of the linked terms as well (Cell Method glossary item is now called Cell Methods also). Have changed it now, was very much on the fence and think you've swayed me.

Reviewer 2: I see the problem + sympathize.
But FWIW I'd choose not to have glossary terms pluralised.
However, I **_think_** you can fix this by providing a custom link text : https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html#cross-referencing-syntax
I'm just going to try that one out ...

>         - :term:`Coordinate Factory`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - :term:`Coordinate Factories`
```

>         - :term:`Coordinate Factory`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - :term:`Coordinate Factories`
```

        | **Related:** :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Cell Method

>         A cell method represent past operations on a cube's data, such as a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A cell method represents that a cube's data derives from a past statistical operation, such as a
```

        MEAN or SUM operation.

        | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Coordinate Factory

>         A coordinate factory derives coordinates (sometimes referred to as
>         derived coordinates) from the values of existing coordinates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A coordinate factory calculates a coordinate (sometimes referred to as a
        derived coordinate) from the values of existing coordinates, on demand.
```

        |

   Lazy Data
        Data stored in hard drive, and then temporarily loaded into RAM in
        batches when needed. Allows of less memory usage and faster performance,
        thanks to parallel processing.

        | **Related:** :term:`Dask` **|** :term:`Real Data`
        | **More information:** :doc:`real_and_lazy_data`
        |

   Long Name
        A name describing a :term:`phenomenon`, not limited to the
        the same restraints as :term:`standard name`.

        | **Related:** :term:`Standard Name` **|** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Matplotlib
        A python package for plotting and projecting data in a wide variety
        of formats.

        | **Related:** :term:`CartoPy` **|** :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** `Matplotlib <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/>`_
        |

   Metadata
        The data which is used to describe phenomenon data e.g. longitude.

        | **Related:** :term:`Phenomenon` **|** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`../further_topics/metadata`
        |

   NetCDF Format

>         A meteorological file format; this is the data model
>         iris is based on. Follows `CF Conventions <http://cfconventions.org/>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A flexible file format for storing multi-dimensional array-like data.
        When Iris loads this format, it also especially recognises and interprets data
        encoded according to the :term:`CF Conventions`.
```

        | **Related:** :term:`Fields File (FF) Format`
         **|** :term:`GRIB Format` **|** :term:`Post Processing (PP) Format`
        | **More information:** `NetCD-4 Python Git <https://github.com/Unidata/netcdf4-python>`_
        |

   NumPy
        A mathematical Python library, predominantly based around
        multi-dimensional arrays.

        | **Related:** :term:`Dask`  **|** :term:`Cubes`
         **|** :term:`Xarray`
        | **More information:** `NumPy.org <https://numpy.org/>`_
        |

   Phenomenon

>         The primary data which is measured, usually within a cube, e.g.
>         air temperature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The physical meaning of data array values, e.g. `cube.data` or `coordinate.points`. For example : air temperature.
```

Author: This took me a couple reads to entirely understand; trying to maintain the amount of information but perhaps more beginner friendly. 
Might leave for the time being; I'm struggling to find that middle ground; maybe something to bring up after merge.

Reviewer 2: TBH I think it's ok as it was.  On reflection, I think my adding mention of coordinates was a bad call !

        | **Related:** :term:`Metadata` **|** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Post Processing (PP) Format
        A meteorological file format, created from a post processed
        :term:`Fields File (FF) Format`.

        | **Related:** :term:`GRIB Format` **|** :term:`NetCDF Format`
        | **More information:** `PP Wikipedia Page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PP-format>`_
        |

   Real Data
        Data that has been loaded into RAM, as opposed to sitting
        on the hard drive.

        | **Related:** :term:`Lazy Data`
        | **More information:** :doc:`real_and_lazy_data`
        |

   Standard Name

>         A name describing a :term:`phenomenon`, keeping within
>         bounds of `CF Standardisation <http://cfconventions.org/standard-names.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        A name describing a :term:`phenomenon`, one from a fixed list defined at `CF Standard Names <http://cfconventions.org/standard-names.html>`_.
```

        | **Related:** :term:`Long Name` **|** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Units

>         The unit with which the phenomenon is measured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The physical unit of measure of a :term:`phenomenon`, e.g. "m / sec".
```

Author: Slightly edited this one; the example and link are useful, but I'm not sure the definition itself adds much, apart from removing some colloquialism, which is something I was striving for with this, and frankly still don't feel I've reached.

.. _glossary:

Glossary
=============

.. glossary::

   Cartopy
        A python package for producing maps, and other geospatial data.
        Allows plotting on these maps, over a range of projections.

        | **Related:** :term:`Matplotlib`
        | **More information:** `CartoPy Site <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/>`_
        |

   CF Conventions
        Rules for storing meteorological Climate and Forecast data in
        :term:`NetCDF Format` files, defining a standard metadata format to
        describe what the data is.
        This also forms the data model which iris is based on.

        | **Related:** :term:`NetCDF Format`
        | **More information:** `CF Conventions <http://cfconventions.org/>`_
        |

>    Coordinates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Coordinate
```

        A container for data points, comes in three main flavours.

        - Dimensional Coordinates -
            A coordinate that describes a single data dimension of a cube.
            They can only contain numerical values, in a sorted order (ascending
            or descending).
        - Auxiliary Coordinates -
            A coordinate that can map to multiple data dimensions. Can
            contain any type of data.
        - Scalar Coordinates -
                A coordinate that is not mapped to any data dimension, instead
                representing the cube as a whole.

        | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

>    Cubes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Cube
```

        Cubes are the main method of storing data in Iris. A cube can consist of:

        - Array of :term:`Phenomenon` Data (Required)

>         - :term:`Coordinates`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - :term:`Coordinates <Coordinate>`
```

        - :term:`Standard Name`
        - :term:`Long Name`
        - :term:`Units`

>         - :term:`Cell Methods`
>         - :term:`Coordinate Factories`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - :term:`Cell Methods <Cell Method>`
        - :term:`Coordinate Factories <Coordinate Factory>`
```

This way allows glossary entries to be singular -- see on...

        | **Related:** :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

>    Cell Methods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Cell Method
```

        A cell method represents that a cube's data has been derived from
        a past statistical operation, such as a
        MEAN or SUM operation.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Cube`
```

        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

>    Coordinate Factories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Coordinate Factory
```

        A coordinate factory derives coordinates (sometimes referred to as
        derived coordinates) from the values of existing coordinates.
        E.g. A hybrid height factory might use "height above sea level"
        and "height at ground level" coordinate data to calculate a
        "height above ground level" coordinate.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Cube`
```

         **|** :term:`Post Processing (PP) Format` **|** :term:`NetCDF Format`
        | **More information:** `Unified Model <https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/research/approach/modelling-systems/unified-model/index>`_
        |

   GRIB Format
        A WMO-standard meteorological file format.

        | **Related:** :term:`Fields File (FF) Format`
         **|** :term:`Post Processing (PP) Format` **|** :term:`NetCDF Format`
        | **More information:** `GRIB 1 User Guide <https://old.wmo.int/extranet/pages/prog/www/WMOCodes/Guides/GRIB/GRIB1-Contents.html>`_
         **|** `GRIB 2 User Guide.pdf <https://old.wmo.int/extranet/pages/prog/www/WMOCodes/Guides/GRIB/GRIB2_062006.pdf>`_
        |

   Lazy Data
        Data stored in hard drive, and then temporarily loaded into RAM in
        batches when needed. Allows of less memory usage and faster performance,
        thanks to parallel processing.

        | **Related:** :term:`Dask` **|** :term:`Real Data`
        | **More information:** :doc:`real_and_lazy_data`
        |

   Long Name
        A name describing a :term:`phenomenon`, not limited to the
        the same restraints as :term:`standard name`.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Standard Name` **|** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Standard Name` **|** :term:`Cube`
```

        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Matplotlib
        A python package for plotting and projecting data in a wide variety
        of formats.

        | **Related:** :term:`CartoPy` **|** :term:`NumPy`
        | **More information:** `Matplotlib <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/>`_
        |

   Metadata
        The data which is used to describe phenomenon data e.g. longitude.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Phenomenon` **|** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Phenomenon` **|** :term:`Cube`
```

        | **More information:** :doc:`../further_topics/metadata`
        |

   NetCDF Format
        A flexible file format for storing multi-dimensional array-like data.
        When Iris loads this format, it also especially recognises and interprets data
        encoded according to the :term:`CF Conventions`.

        | **Related:** :term:`Fields File (FF) Format`
         **|** :term:`GRIB Format` **|** :term:`Post Processing (PP) Format`
        | **More information:** `NetCD-4 Python Git <https://github.com/Unidata/netcdf4-python>`_
        |

   NumPy
        A mathematical Python library, predominantly based around
        multi-dimensional arrays.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Dask`  **|** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Dask`  **|** :term:`Cube`
```

         **|** :term:`Xarray`
        | **More information:** `NumPy.org <https://numpy.org/>`_
        |

   Phenomenon
        The primary data which is measured, usually within a cube, e.g.
        air temperature.

        | **Related:** :term:`Metadata` **|** :term:`Cubes`
        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Post Processing (PP) Format
        A meteorological file format, created from a post processed
        :term:`Fields File (FF) Format`.

        | **Related:** :term:`GRIB Format` **|** :term:`NetCDF Format`
        | **More information:** `PP Wikipedia Page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PP-format>`_
        |

   Real Data
        Data that has been loaded into RAM, as opposed to sitting
        on the hard drive.

        | **Related:** :term:`Lazy Data`
        | **More information:** :doc:`real_and_lazy_data`
        |

   Standard Name
        A name describing a :term:`phenomenon`,  one from a fixed list
        defined at `CF Standard Names <http://cfconventions.org/standard-names.html>`_.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Long Name` **|** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Long Name` **|** :term:`Cube`
```

        | **More information:** :doc:`iris_cubes`
        |

   Units
        The unit with which the :term:`phenomenon` is measured e.g. m / sec.

>         | **Related:** :term:`Cubes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        | **Related:** :term:`Cube`
```
